Glossary
========

*******
Ansible
*******

`Ansible <https://www.ansible.com/>`_ is a very popular software
automation tool written in python that is generally used for automating
software provisioning, configuration management and application
deployment.

*****************
ansible-openwisp2
*****************

Ansible role that installs the `openwisp2
<https://github.com/openwisp/ansible-openwisp2/>`_ controller.

********************
django-netjsonconfig
********************

This is the `configuration management module of OpenWISP
<https://github.com/openwisp/django-netjsonconfig/>`_, implemented as
a reusable django-app.

*****************
django-freeradius
*****************

This is the `Freeradius management web interface module of OpenWISP
<https://github.com/openwisp/django-freeradius/>`_, implemented as a
reusable django app.

***********
django-x509
***********

This is the `Publik Key Infrastructure management module of OpenWISP
<https://github.com/openwisp/django-x509/>`_, implemented as a reusable
django app.

************
Mesh Network
************

A `mesh <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mesh_networking/>`_ network is a
local network topology in which the infrastructure nodes connect directly,
dynamically and non-hierarchically to as many other nodes as possible
and cooperate with one another to efficiently route data from/to clients.

*******
NetJSON
*******

`NetJSON <http://netjson.org/>`_ is a data interchange format based on
JSON designed to ease the development of software tools for computer
networks.

********
OpenWISP
********

See :ref:`what_is_openwisp`

***************
openwisp-config
***************

`openwisp-config <https://github.com/openwisp/openwisp-config/>`_ is the
agent for OpenWRT that allows OpenWISP 2 to remotely send configuration
updates.

*******
OpenWRT
*******

`OpenWRT <https://openwrt.org/>`_ is an open source project for embedded
operating system based on Linux, primarily used on embedded devices to
route network traffic.

******
RADIUS
******

`RADIUS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RADIUS/>`_ (Remote Authentication
Dial-In User Service) is a networking protocol that provides centralized
Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting management for users who
connect and use a network service.
