Values and Goals of OpenWISP
============================

**Table of Contents:**

.. contents::
    :depth: 2
    :local:

.. _what_is_openwisp:

What is OpenWISP?
-----------------

OpenWISP is a robust and versatile software platform designed to simplify
and automate network management, with a strong emphasis on wireless
networks. It's widely used in various scenarios, including public WiFi
hotspots, mesh networks, community networks, and IoT applications.

In December 2016, OpenWISP 2 was launched, marking the next generation of
our software. This version, built with Python and Django, replaced the
original version developed with Ruby on Rails. The OpenWISP community has
since cultivated an ecosystem of applications and tools that empower
developers to create custom networking solutions. Our mission is to drive
innovation and promote freedom in the realm of network infrastructure
automation.

History
-------

Refer to `History of OpenWISP <http://openwisp.org/history.html>`_.

Core Values
-----------

1. Communication through Electronic Means is a Human Right
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We believe that **communication through electronic means is a fundamental
human right**.

According to Mozilla, `4 billion people live without internet access today
<https://blog.mozilla.org/blog/2017/07/31/mozilla-releases-research-results-zero-rating-not-serving-ramp-internet/>`_.

Having witnessed the significant progress the internet has brought to our
society, we are deeply convinced that addressing the issue of internet
connectivity will help to alleviate the economic disparity that is so
evident at the beginning of the 21st century.

For these reasons, **fighting the digital divide, both primary (lack of
infrastructure) and secondary (lack of know-how), is our utmost
priority**.

2. Net Neutrality
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We believe `Net Neutrality
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Net_neutrality>`_ is beneficial to the
internet because it ensures fair treatment (non-discrimination) of private
communications.

The very first public WiFi networks built with OpenWISP in Italy adhere
strictly to this principle: no content filtering of any type is allowed on
these networks, and no special privileges are given to any private
entities.

For this reason, we are opposed to including in our ecosystem and
documentation any software tools or tutorials that aim to implement
solutions contrary to Net Neutrality.

3. Privacy
~~~~~~~~~~

**Privacy is fundamental to a healthy and functional society**.

The initial public WiFi networks built with OpenWISP in Italy adhere
strictly to this principle: traffic logs are stored only for the duration
mandated by law, and personal data is never sold to third parties.

Therefore, we oppose the inclusion in our ecosystem and documentation of
any software tool or tutorial that aims to intrude upon user privacy by
collecting and selling their data to third parties for profit.

4. Open Source, Licenses, and Collaboration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We release all our software under Open Source licenses on `GitHub
<https://github.com/openwisp>`_.

We primarily use two types of licenses:

- **GPLv3**: Used for software modules we consider to have significant
  commercial value for ISPs and private companies. This license aims to
  prevent these tools from being included in proprietary closed-source
  solutions, ensuring that private entities do not profit from our
  community's work without contributing back.
- **BSD3** and **MIT**: These highly permissive licenses are used for
  experimental and innovative software modules that are valuable but less
  monetizable. By allowing these modules to be included in proprietary
  solutions, we aim to reduce duplication of effort and encourage
  contributions from organizations and individuals.

We advocate for transparency and a community-driven approach, welcoming
all new participants, contributors, and users.

Our community values support, friendliness, and collaboration, aiming to
make our software as useful as possible to a wide audience, **while
upholding our core values**.

We encourage those who share our values to reach out to us through our
`support channels <http://openwisp.org/support.html>`_ and
:doc:`contribute to the project <../developer/contributing>` in any way
they can, according to their means and available time.

.. _values_software_reusability:

5. Software Reusability for Long-Term Sustainability
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Long-time contributors to **OpenWISP have firsthand experience with the
pitfalls of dealing with inflexible monolithic applications** that are
difficult to reuse beyond their original design scope.

**We've witnessed numerous projects emerge with great promise, only to
develop their code from scratch and eventually fade into obscurity**. This
recurring cycle represents a tremendous waste of human effort, energy, and
resources.

For this reason, **OpenWISP 2 places a strong emphasis on modularity and
reusability**, drawing inspiration from **best practices established in
the Unix world** as outlined in `The Art of Unix Programming
<http://www.catb.org/esr/writings/taoup/html/>`_ by `Eric S. Raymond
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eric_S._Raymond>`_.

The core modules of OpenWISP 2 are licensed and designed to facilitate
inclusion by developers outside the OpenWISP community in their own
applications (subject to licensing terms).

This approach fosters an ecosystem of modern networking software tools
that attracts developers from around the globe.

The shared interest of users, modifiers, sharers, resellers, and
contributors of these modules forms the bedrock of **long-term
sustainability**.

Goals
-----

- Help solve the problem of lack of internet connectivity by simplifying
  the deployment and management of low-cost network infrastructure
  worldwide.
- Drive innovation in the networking software realm through automation,
  modularity, reusability, flexibility, extensibility, and collaboration.
- Foster an ecosystem of software tools capable of generating numerous
  OpenWISP derivatives, enhancing the accessibility and affordability of
  electronic communication.
- Mitigate vendor lock-in by striving to support multiple operating
  systems and hardware vendors. While our official support is currently
  limited to OpenWrt derivatives, we have experimental configuration
  backends for `Raspbian
  <https://github.com/openwisp/netjsonconfig/tree/raspbian>`_ and `AirOS
  <https://github.com/openwisp/netjsonconfig/tree/airos>`_, demonstrating
  feasibility for supporting multiple systems.
- Provide comprehensive documentation for both users and developers.
- Develop user-friendly web interfaces accessible to a broad audience.
